# Crowds throng Taipei as Taiwan celebrates east Asia's largest Pride march
**Reuters**

**2023-10-28 09:44**

**https://www.reuters.com/world/asia-pacific/crowds-throng-taipei-taiwan-celebrates-east-asias-largest-pride-march-2023-10-28/**

About 150,000 people marched through Taipei on Saturday in a riotous and noisy celebration of LGBTQ+ equality and diversity at east Asia's largest Pride march, with Vice President Lai Ching-te becoming the most senior government leader ever to attend.

The event took place ahead of Taiwan's presidential and parliamentary elections in January, and Lai, leading opinion polls to be elected president, joined the ruling Democratic Progressive Party's (DPP) delegation, seeking to cement its position as a defender of liberal values.

Lai, speaking to reporters before joining the march around half way through, thanked those who had worked to support equality and the legalising of same sex marriage in 2019, which President Tsai Ing-wen and her DPP championed.

"On this road the DPP has always together with everyone," he said, as scantily clad male dancers passed behind him on the back of a truck.

"Equal marriage is not the end - it's the starting point for diversity. I will stand steadfast on this path."

Lai then joined the DPP delegation, marching behind a banner reading "Democracy Supports Gays" as supporters yelled out "Hello Mr. President".

None of the other three presidential candidates attended, although the youth wing of the main opposition party Kuomintang did, with its members shouting that their party also supported equality as they passed by Lai.

The streets of central Taipei were packed for the annual parade, the 21st since it began and including go-go dancers and drag queens.

Organisers put the number of attendees at around 150,000, including many foreigners.

Tsai expressed her support for the Pride march in a Facebook message.

"Under the umbrella of Taiwan's democracy and freedom, we learn to accept everyone's characteristics and respect everyone's differences," she wrote.

Taiwan's openness on LGBTQ+ issues stands in marked contrast with its giant neighbour China, which claims the island as its own territory.

While same sex relations are not illegal in China, same sex marriage is, and the government has been cracking down on activists and depictions of LGBTQ+ people in the media.

Reporting by Ben Blanchard; Editingby Raju Gopalakrishnan